README.md, before:

# Awesome Alternatives

This is the biggest list of alternatives for the most used programs, web services, games and operating systems ever, with a focus on free or open-source alternatives for proprietary/shareware/freeware programs and games.

(Most of the programs and games below can be found in most Linux distributions or in the Flathub and Snapcraft stores)

For more alternatives see the [GNOME](https://apps.gnome.org/) and [KDE](https://apps.kde.org/) applications suite or the [Flathub](https://flathub.org/) and [Snapcraft](https://snapcraft.io/) stores (or install a Linux distribution with [GNOME](https://www.gnome.org/getting-gnome) or [KDE Plasma](https://kde.org/distributions) included)

## Approval Criteria

- The program or game must be usable
- The program must have a license, even if the source code is available
- The program or game license must be approved by [OSI](https://opensource.org/licenses)

### Why freeware programs and games aren't accepted?

Freeware programs and games don't provide the source code and the rights of usage are determined by the author, the terms can change anytime.

While in free and open-source licenses the rights/terms of usage don't change.

## Template

This is the template used to add new items, you can easily copy and modify it.

```
|  |  |  |
```

## Index

- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Web Browsers](#web-browsers)
- [App Stores](#app-stores)
- [Video Platform](#video-platform)
- [Streaming](#streaming)
- [Messaging](#messaging)
- [Social Networks](#social-networks)
- [VPNs](#vpns)
- [Disk Encryption](#disk-encryption)
- [Search Engines](#search-engines)
- [Internet Protocols](#internet-protocols)
- [Source Code Hosting](#source-code-hosting)
- [Anti-Malware](#anti-malware)
- [Office](#office)
- [Image Manipulation](#image-manipulation)
- [Video Editors](#video-editors)
- [Media Players](#media-players)
- [Sound Production](#sound-production)
- [Torrent](#torrent)
- [File Sharing](#file-sharing)
- [Game Engines](#game-engines)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [DJ Mixing](#dj-mixing)
- [Voice/Video Chats](#voicevideo-chats)
- [Android Keyboard](#android-keyboard)
- [File Compression](#file-compression)
- [File Manager](#file-manager)
- [Personal Assistant](#personal-assistant)
- [Graphics API](#graphics-api)
- [Text Editor](#text-editor)
- [IDE](#ide)
- [Screen Capture](#screen-capture)
- [Screen Recording](#screen-recording)
- [Map Navigation](#map-navigation)
- [Image Viewer](#image-viewer)
- [Emulators](#emulators)
- [Games](#games)

### Operating Systems

| **OS** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows, MacOSX | [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com), [PopOS](https://pop.system76.com/), [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/), [antiX Linux](https://antixlinux.com/), [Void Linux](https://voidlinux.org/), [GhostBSD](https://www.ghostbsd.org/), [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/), [Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/), [Android-x86](https://www.android-x86.org/) | The most used proprietary operating systems on desktops. |
| Android (AOSP, OEM versions and custom ROMs), iOS | [postmarketOS](https://postmarketos.org/), [UBports](https://ubports.com/) | The most used mobile operating systems. |
| Linux (also known as GNU/Linux) | [GhostBSD](https://www.ghostbsd.org/), [FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), [NetBSD](https://www.netbsd.org/), [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org/), [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/), [Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/), [Android-x86](https://www.android-x86.org/) | The most used operating system of the world, except on desktops. Created by Linus Torvalds and developed by the Linux developers. |

### Web Browsers

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Chrome, Opera, Microsoft Edge, Safari | [Chromium](https://chromium.org), [ungoogled-chromium](https://ungoogled-software.github.io/), [Bromite](https://www.bromite.org/), [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/), [Zen Browser](https://zen-browser.app/) | The most used web browsers, some are proprietary and others are open-source with binary blobs |
| HTTP Browsers | [Lagrange](https://gmi.skyjake.fi/lagrange/) | The most used text protocol on the Internet |

### App Stores

| **App Store** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|---------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Play Store | [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org) | The most used proprietary app store on Android |

### Video Platform

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| YouTube, VK, Rumble, Bitchute | [PeerTube](https://joinpeertube.org/) | The most used proprietary video platforms |

### Streaming

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Twitch, YouTube | [Owncast](https://owncast.online/) | The most used proprietary livestream platforms |
| StreamYard | [VDO.Ninja](https://vdo.ninja/) | One of the most used YouTube streaming services |

### Messaging

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord | [Jami](https://jami.net/), [Matrix](https://matrix.org/), [XMPP](https://xmpp.org/), [Spacebar](https://spacebar.chat/), [Briar](https://briarproject.org/) | The most used proprietary messengers |

### Social Networks

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Facebook, Twitter | [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org/), [Nostr](https://nostr.com/) | The most used proprietary social networks |

### VPNs

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Nord VPN, Proton VPN | [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/), [I2P](https://geti2p.net/en/), [Lokinet](https://lokinet.org/) | The most used centralized VPNs |

### Disk Encryption

| **Encryption** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| BitLocker | [VeraCrypt](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Home.html), LUKS (Linux encryption) | The Microsoft Windows disk encryption technology |

### Search Engines

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google, DuckDuckGo, Yahoo, Bing, Yandex | [Mojeek](https://www.mojeek.com/) | The most used proprietary search engines |

### Internet Protocols

| **Protocol** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| World Wide Web | [Gemini](https://geminiprotocol.net/), [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/), [Lokinet](https://lokinet.org/), [TON Sites](https://ton.tg/en/ton-sites) | The most used website protocol |

### Source Code Hosting

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| GitHub | [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/), [NotABug](https://notabug.org/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/), [Gitea](https://about.gitea.com/), [Radicle](https://radicle.xyz/) | The most used Git hosting service |

### Anti-Malware

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Norton, McAfee, AVG, Avast, Windows Defender, Malwarebytes | [ClamAV](https://www.clamav.net/) | The most used proprietary anti-malware programs |

### Office

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Microsoft Office | [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/) | The most used office suite |
| Adobe Acrobat | [Scribus](https://www.scribus.net/), [Evince](https://apps.gnome.org/Evince/), [Okular](https://okular.kde.org/) | The most used proprietary PDF document viewer and editor |

### Image Manipulation

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator | [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/), [Krita](https://krita.org/en/), [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) | The most used proprietary image manipulation programs |

### Video Editors

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Sony Vegas, Adobe Premiere | [Kdenlive](https://kdenlive.org/), [OpenShot](https://www.openshot.org/), [Flowblade](https://jliljebl.github.io/flowblade/), [Shotcut](https://www.shotcut.org/), [Pitivi](http://www.pitivi.org/), [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) | The most used proprietary video editors |

### Media Players

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Media Player | [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/), [Festival](https://festival.pm/), [Pragha](https://pragha-music-player.github.io/), [Quod Libet](https://quodlibet.readthedocs.io/), [Rhythmbox](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/rhythmbox), [Parole](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/parole/start), [Exaile](https://exaile.org/) | The default Windows media player |

### Sound Production

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| FL Studio, Ableton Live, Reaper, Hammer | [LMMS](https://lmms.io/), [Ardour](https://ardour.org/) | The most used proprietary digital audio workstations |

### Torrent

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| BitTorrent, uTorrent | [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/), [KTorrent](https://apps.kde.org/ktorrent/), [Deluge](https://deluge-torrent.org/), [WebTorrent](https://webtorrent.io) | The most used proprietary torrent clients |

### File Sharing

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Drive, MEGA, OneDrive, Dropbox | [Wormhole](https://wormhole.app/), [Winden](https://winden.app/), [Warp](https://apps.gnome.org/Warp/), [TrebleShot](https://trebleshot.monora.org/), [Rymdport](https://rymdport.github.io/), [Wormhole Android](https://gitlab.com/lukas-heiligenbrunner/wormhole) | The most used services for file sharing |

### Game Engines

| **Engine** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Unity, Unreal Engine, Game Maker | [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org/), [GDevelop](https://gdevelop.io/), [Love2D](https://www.love2d.org/), [Pygame](https://www.pygame.org/docs/), [MonoGame](https://monogame.net/), [Piston](https://www.piston.rs/), [Fyrox](https://fyrox.rs/) | The most used proprietary game engines |

### Finance

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Banking | [Bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org), [Monero](https://monero.org) | The most used payment service |

### DJ Mixing

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| VirtualDJ | [Mixxx](https://mixxx.org/) | Popular proprietary DJ mixing program |

### Voice/Video Chats

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Microsoft Teams, Skype, Zoom, Google Hangouts | [Jami](https://jami.net/), [Jitsi Meet](https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/), [VDO.Ninja](https://vdo.ninja/) | The most used proprietary voice/video chat programs |

### Android Keyboard

| **Keyboard** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| GBoard | [OpenBoard](https://github.com/openboard-team/openboard) | The proprietary Google keyboard |

### File Compression

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| WinRAR | [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/), [KDE Ark](https://apps.kde.org/ark/), [GNOME File Roller](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/file-roller), [Engrampa](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/engrampa/) | A popular proprietary archive program |

### File Manager

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Explorer | [KDE Dolphin](https://apps.kde.org/dolphin/), [GNOME Files](https://apps.gnome.org/Nautilus/), [Xfe](http://roland65.free.fr/xfe/), [Thunar](https://docs.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/start), [Caja](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/caja/) | The Windows file manager |

### Personal Assistant

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Assistant, Google Now | [Dicio](https://github.com/Stypox/dicio-android) | The most used personal assistant on Android |

### Graphics API

| **API** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|---------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Direct3D, Metal | [Vulkan](https://www.vulkan.org/), [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) | The most used graphics APIs |

### Text Editor

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Notepad | [KWrite](https://apps.kde.org/kwrite/), [GNOME Text Editor](https://apps.gnome.org/TextEditor/), [Pluma](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/pluma/), [Mousepad](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/mousepad/start) | The most used proprietary text editor |

### IDE

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Visual Studio Code, Atom | [KDevelop](https://kdevelop.org/), [Apache NetBeans](https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/index.html), [Kate](https://apps.kde.org/kate/), [Geany](https://www.geany.org/), [Graviton](https://graviton.netlify.app/), [Eclipse](https://eclipseide.org/), [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) | One of the most used IDEs |
| Emacs, Vim | [Helix](https://helix-editor.com/) | The most used IDEs on Linux |

### Screen Capture

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Screenshot? | [Flameshot](https://flameshot.org/), [KDE Spectacle](https://apps.kde.org/spectacle/), [GNOME Screenshot](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-screenshot) | The most used screenshot program |

### Screen Recording

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Bandicamp, Fraps | [OBS](https://obsproject.com/) | One of the most used proprietary screen recorders |

### Map Navigation

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Maps | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | The most used proprietary map navigation service |
| Google Earth | [KDE Marble](https://marble.kde.org/) | The most used proprietary 3D map navigation |

### Image Viewer

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Image Viewer | [Loupe](https://apps.gnome.org/Loupe/), [Gwenview](https://apps.kde.org/gwenview/), [Ristretto](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/ristretto/start), [Eye of MATE](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/eom/) | The most used proprietary image viewer |

### Emulators

| **Emulator** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| ePSXe, pSX | [DuckStation](https://github.com/stenzek/duckstation), [PCSX-ReARMed](https://github.com/notaz/pcsx_rearmed) | Popular freeware PS1 emulators |
| PCSX2 | [Play!](https://purei.org/) | The most popular and advanced PS2 emulator |

### Games

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Ace Of Spades | [OpenSpades](https://openspades.yvt.jp/), [ZeroSpades](https://github.com/siecvi/zerospades) | A popular voxel combat game |
| Factorio | [Mindustry](https://mindustrygame.github.io/) | A popular proprietary tower defense game |
| Half-Life | [Xash3D FWGS](https://github.com/FWGS/xash3d-fwgs) | The most popular proprietary FPS game |
| Counter Strike 1.6 | [FreeCS](https://github.com/eukara/freecs) | One of the most popular proprietary FPS games |
| VRChat | [Overte](https://overte.org/) | The most popular proprietary virtual reality game |

Commit message:

Add the note for help

README.md, after:

# Awesome Alternatives

This is the biggest list of alternatives for the most used programs, web services, games and operating systems ever, with a focus on free or open-source alternatives for proprietary/shareware/freeware programs and games.

(Most of the programs and games below can be found in most Linux distributions or in the Flathub and Snapcraft stores)

For more alternatives see the [GNOME](https://apps.gnome.org/) and [KDE](https://apps.kde.org/) applications suite or the [Flathub](https://flathub.org/) and [Snapcraft](https://snapcraft.io/) stores (or install a Linux distribution with [GNOME](https://www.gnome.org/getting-gnome) or [KDE Plasma](https://kde.org/distributions) included)

**If you like this list consider to give a star on the repository, it will help more people to replace non-free programs or discover better programs**

## Approval Criteria

- The program or game must be usable
- The program must have a license, even if the source code is available
- The program or game license must be approved by [OSI](https://opensource.org/licenses)

### Why freeware programs and games aren't accepted?

Freeware programs and games don't provide the source code and the rights of usage are determined by the author, the terms can change anytime.

While in free and open-source licenses the rights/terms of usage don't change.

## Template

This is the template used to add new items, you can easily copy and modify it.

```
|  |  |  |
```

## Index

- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Web Browsers](#web-browsers)
- [App Stores](#app-stores)
- [Video Platform](#video-platform)
- [Streaming](#streaming)
- [Messaging](#messaging)
- [Social Networks](#social-networks)
- [VPNs](#vpns)
- [Disk Encryption](#disk-encryption)
- [Search Engines](#search-engines)
- [Internet Protocols](#internet-protocols)
- [Source Code Hosting](#source-code-hosting)
- [Anti-Malware](#anti-malware)
- [Office](#office)
- [Image Manipulation](#image-manipulation)
- [Video Editors](#video-editors)
- [Media Players](#media-players)
- [Sound Production](#sound-production)
- [Torrent](#torrent)
- [File Sharing](#file-sharing)
- [Game Engines](#game-engines)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [DJ Mixing](#dj-mixing)
- [Voice/Video Chats](#voicevideo-chats)
- [Android Keyboard](#android-keyboard)
- [File Compression](#file-compression)
- [File Manager](#file-manager)
- [Personal Assistant](#personal-assistant)
- [Graphics API](#graphics-api)
- [Text Editor](#text-editor)
- [IDE](#ide)
- [Screen Capture](#screen-capture)
- [Screen Recording](#screen-recording)
- [Map Navigation](#map-navigation)
- [Image Viewer](#image-viewer)
- [Emulators](#emulators)
- [Games](#games)

### Operating Systems

| **OS** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows, MacOSX | [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com), [PopOS](https://pop.system76.com/), [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/), [antiX Linux](https://antixlinux.com/), [Void Linux](https://voidlinux.org/), [GhostBSD](https://www.ghostbsd.org/), [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/), [Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/), [Android-x86](https://www.android-x86.org/) | The most used proprietary operating systems on desktops. |
| Android (AOSP, OEM versions and custom ROMs), iOS | [postmarketOS](https://postmarketos.org/), [UBports](https://ubports.com/) | The most used mobile operating systems. |
| Linux (also known as GNU/Linux) | [GhostBSD](https://www.ghostbsd.org/), [FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), [NetBSD](https://www.netbsd.org/), [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org/), [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/), [Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/), [Android-x86](https://www.android-x86.org/) | The most used operating system of the world, except on desktops. Created by Linus Torvalds and developed by the Linux developers. |

### Web Browsers

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Chrome, Opera, Microsoft Edge, Safari | [Chromium](https://chromium.org), [ungoogled-chromium](https://ungoogled-software.github.io/), [Bromite](https://www.bromite.org/), [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/), [Zen Browser](https://zen-browser.app/) | The most used web browsers, some are proprietary and others are open-source with binary blobs |
| HTTP Browsers | [Lagrange](https://gmi.skyjake.fi/lagrange/) | The most used text protocol on the Internet |

### App Stores

| **App Store** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|---------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Play Store | [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org) | The most used proprietary app store on Android |

### Video Platform

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| YouTube, VK, Rumble, Bitchute | [PeerTube](https://joinpeertube.org/) | The most used proprietary video platforms |

### Streaming

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Twitch, YouTube | [Owncast](https://owncast.online/) | The most used proprietary livestream platforms |
| StreamYard | [VDO.Ninja](https://vdo.ninja/) | One of the most used YouTube streaming services |

### Messaging

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord | [Jami](https://jami.net/), [Matrix](https://matrix.org/), [XMPP](https://xmpp.org/), [Spacebar](https://spacebar.chat/), [Briar](https://briarproject.org/) | The most used proprietary messengers |

### Social Networks

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Facebook, Twitter | [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org/), [Nostr](https://nostr.com/) | The most used proprietary social networks |

### VPNs

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Nord VPN, Proton VPN | [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/), [I2P](https://geti2p.net/en/), [Lokinet](https://lokinet.org/) | The most used centralized VPNs |

### Disk Encryption

| **Encryption** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| BitLocker | [VeraCrypt](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Home.html), LUKS (Linux encryption) | The Microsoft Windows disk encryption technology |

### Search Engines

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google, DuckDuckGo, Yahoo, Bing, Yandex | [Mojeek](https://www.mojeek.com/) | The most used proprietary search engines |

### Internet Protocols

| **Protocol** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| World Wide Web | [Gemini](https://geminiprotocol.net/), [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/), [Lokinet](https://lokinet.org/), [TON Sites](https://ton.tg/en/ton-sites) | The most used website protocol |

### Source Code Hosting

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| GitHub | [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/), [NotABug](https://notabug.org/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/), [Gitea](https://about.gitea.com/), [Radicle](https://radicle.xyz/) | The most used Git hosting service |

### Anti-Malware

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Norton, McAfee, AVG, Avast, Windows Defender, Malwarebytes | [ClamAV](https://www.clamav.net/) | The most used proprietary anti-malware programs |

### Office

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Microsoft Office | [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/) | The most used office suite |
| Adobe Acrobat | [Scribus](https://www.scribus.net/), [Evince](https://apps.gnome.org/Evince/), [Okular](https://okular.kde.org/) | The most used proprietary PDF document viewer and editor |

### Image Manipulation

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator | [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/), [Krita](https://krita.org/en/), [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) | The most used proprietary image manipulation programs |

### Video Editors

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Sony Vegas, Adobe Premiere | [Kdenlive](https://kdenlive.org/), [OpenShot](https://www.openshot.org/), [Flowblade](https://jliljebl.github.io/flowblade/), [Shotcut](https://www.shotcut.org/), [Pitivi](http://www.pitivi.org/), [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) | The most used proprietary video editors |

### Media Players

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Media Player | [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/), [Festival](https://festival.pm/), [Pragha](https://pragha-music-player.github.io/), [Quod Libet](https://quodlibet.readthedocs.io/), [Rhythmbox](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/rhythmbox), [Parole](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/parole/start), [Exaile](https://exaile.org/) | The default Windows media player |

### Sound Production

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| FL Studio, Ableton Live, Reaper, Hammer | [LMMS](https://lmms.io/), [Ardour](https://ardour.org/) | The most used proprietary digital audio workstations |

### Torrent

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| BitTorrent, uTorrent | [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/), [KTorrent](https://apps.kde.org/ktorrent/), [Deluge](https://deluge-torrent.org/), [WebTorrent](https://webtorrent.io) | The most used proprietary torrent clients |

### File Sharing

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Drive, MEGA, OneDrive, Dropbox | [Wormhole](https://wormhole.app/), [Winden](https://winden.app/), [Warp](https://apps.gnome.org/Warp/), [TrebleShot](https://trebleshot.monora.org/), [Rymdport](https://rymdport.github.io/), [Wormhole Android](https://gitlab.com/lukas-heiligenbrunner/wormhole) | The most used services for file sharing |

### Game Engines

| **Engine** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Unity, Unreal Engine, Game Maker | [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org/), [GDevelop](https://gdevelop.io/), [Love2D](https://www.love2d.org/), [Pygame](https://www.pygame.org/docs/), [MonoGame](https://monogame.net/), [Piston](https://www.piston.rs/), [Fyrox](https://fyrox.rs/) | The most used proprietary game engines |

### Finance

| **Service** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Banking | [Bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org), [Monero](https://monero.org) | The most used payment service |

### DJ Mixing

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| VirtualDJ | [Mixxx](https://mixxx.org/) | Popular proprietary DJ mixing program |

### Voice/Video Chats

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Microsoft Teams, Skype, Zoom, Google Hangouts | [Jami](https://jami.net/), [Jitsi Meet](https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/), [VDO.Ninja](https://vdo.ninja/) | The most used proprietary voice/video chat programs |

### Android Keyboard

| **Keyboard** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| GBoard | [OpenBoard](https://github.com/openboard-team/openboard) | The proprietary Google keyboard |

### File Compression

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| WinRAR | [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/), [KDE Ark](https://apps.kde.org/ark/), [GNOME File Roller](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/file-roller), [Engrampa](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/engrampa/) | A popular proprietary archive program |

### File Manager

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Explorer | [KDE Dolphin](https://apps.kde.org/dolphin/), [GNOME Files](https://apps.gnome.org/Nautilus/), [Xfe](http://roland65.free.fr/xfe/), [Thunar](https://docs.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/start), [Caja](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/caja/) | The Windows file manager |

### Personal Assistant

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Assistant, Google Now | [Dicio](https://github.com/Stypox/dicio-android) | The most used personal assistant on Android |

### Graphics API

| **API** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|---------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Direct3D, Metal | [Vulkan](https://www.vulkan.org/), [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) | The most used graphics APIs |

### Text Editor

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Notepad | [KWrite](https://apps.kde.org/kwrite/), [GNOME Text Editor](https://apps.gnome.org/TextEditor/), [Pluma](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/pluma/), [Mousepad](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/mousepad/start) | The most used proprietary text editor |

### IDE

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Visual Studio Code, Atom | [KDevelop](https://kdevelop.org/), [Apache NetBeans](https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/index.html), [Kate](https://apps.kde.org/kate/), [Geany](https://www.geany.org/), [Graviton](https://graviton.netlify.app/), [Eclipse](https://eclipseide.org/), [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) | One of the most used IDEs |
| Emacs, Vim | [Helix](https://helix-editor.com/) | The most used IDEs on Linux |

### Screen Capture

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Screenshot? | [Flameshot](https://flameshot.org/), [KDE Spectacle](https://apps.kde.org/spectacle/), [GNOME Screenshot](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-screenshot) | The most used screenshot program |

### Screen Recording

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Bandicamp, Fraps | [OBS](https://obsproject.com/) | One of the most used proprietary screen recorders |

### Map Navigation

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Google Maps | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | The most used proprietary map navigation service |
| Google Earth | [KDE Marble](https://marble.kde.org/) | The most used proprietary 3D map navigation |

### Image Viewer

| **Program** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Windows Image Viewer | [Loupe](https://apps.gnome.org/Loupe/), [Gwenview](https://apps.kde.org/gwenview/), [Ristretto](https://docs.xfce.org/apps/ristretto/start), [Eye of MATE](https://wiki.mate-desktop.org/mate-desktop/applications/eom/) | The most used proprietary image viewer |

### Emulators

| **Emulator** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| ePSXe, pSX | [DuckStation](https://github.com/stenzek/duckstation), [PCSX-ReARMed](https://github.com/notaz/pcsx_rearmed) | Popular freeware PS1 emulators |
| PCSX2 | [Play!](https://purei.org/) | The most popular and advanced PS2 emulator |

### Games

| **Game** | **Alternative** | **Description** |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Ace Of Spades | [OpenSpades](https://openspades.yvt.jp/), [ZeroSpades](https://github.com/siecvi/zerospades) | A popular voxel combat game |
| Factorio | [Mindustry](https://mindustrygame.github.io/) | A popular proprietary tower defense game |
| Half-Life | [Xash3D FWGS](https://github.com/FWGS/xash3d-fwgs) | The most popular proprietary FPS game |
| Counter Strike 1.6 | [FreeCS](https://github.com/eukara/freecs) | One of the most popular proprietary FPS games |
| VRChat | [Overte](https://overte.org/) | The most popular proprietary virtual reality game |
